IAM Notes:

1. IAM is global and all the users you create are available throughout the world.
2. Your aws account number can be accessed by going to account. it is available on the IAM user sign in link if its not changed.

Users:
1. Every user has a access key id and a secret access key that are used to programatically access aws services.
2. Users can also login to console if they have permissions using their username and password.
3. Access keys can only be accessed while creating them or while creating user.
4. Permissions can be given to users and groups both.
5. Access keys can be deleted or made inactive at anytime using console.

Policy :
Policy documents are made up of a Json.

Roles: 
1. A role allows one AWS service to another.
2. Secret access keys -> Users login, Roles -> AWS services interactions, permissions -> user/group to access aws services.
3. Roles can give you cross account access and Identity provider access.

Identity Fedaration:
1. IDF can be used to login to AWS.
2.Federated identity management (FIM) is an arrangement that can be made among multiple enterprises that lets subscribers use 
the same identification data to obtain access to the networks of all enterprises in the group. The use of such a system is 
sometimes called identity federation.

ADF AWS:
1. User can sign in to their AWS accounts using active directory fedaration using their organizations AD.
2. Organizations provide users a link to access AWS, when user logs in using his AD creds they send user back
a SAML assertion.
3. Users browser posts the SAML to AWS sign in endpoint(https://signin.aws.amazon.com/saml) and then calls the 
AssumeRoleWithSAML api to log him in to AWS by construsting a sign in link for him.

WIF(Web identity fedaration) AWS:
1. WIF is very similar to ADF but in this case we have many identity providers where you can logon.
2. Once logon you get temperory security creds from the IDP and you can use them to login to AWS.
3. The API call is called assumeRoleWithWebIdentity.
4. ARN = amazon resource name.




